
Experiences moving to Canada
1. Canadian Immigration Agencies that are extremely professional but expensive are Fragomen. I would 100% recommend them.
2. Open Work Permit holders are not considered for positions nor they get any support from any employment agencies. Do not come here on Open Work Permit. All agencies ask for Permanent SSN. They call PR(Landed) and open work permit. Open Work Permit do not volunteer for work more than 15 days. Volunteer only if you are getting official letter from University or Company. There are some professors who will promise something in words, but would exploit your work and also abuse your work. So be watchful. Protect yourself everytime by keeping a record of the conversation either in written, if they communicate verbally record their conversation on video or audio for your own safety.
3. You will not get credit cards if you have Open Work Permit.  Your credit score is also based on your residency status. 
4. Agism, Sexism, Racism, Nepotism are very much systematically enforced here, As long as you have Camera with you on all aspects you are safe. But still you need to be extra cautious. You need to protect yourself against what is unknown or unknown intentions of others. Abuse is very rampant. When you drive have front and rear video recorder. on your phone conversations record the conversation with employer or neighbours or strangers. You do not want to get into any uncomfortable situation. Everyone covers their liability here. Canada is organized by Gethos at workplace, housing and employment as well. If you see chineese, chineese professors will push for recommendation for chineese only. 80% of real-estate is chineese mafia money. Most important lesson in the west is they promote "Apartheid Managers" that instill systematic racism and control.
5. Volunteering is a form of abuse. Do not signup for it, unless you have a written document outlining voluntary aspects a legal document recognised by the Ministry of Labour, Canada. Someone may use your work to benefit them or their family members else where. If the supervisor you work with asks you not work with someone else based on their own internal politics and control stay away from them and record such conversation for your own safety. You do not want to get into trouble for racism and bias at work.  Only use email as the standard mode of legal communication. If your supervisor uses chat based applications record them as well for your own safety. You can report such harassing incidents to the ministry of labour.
6. Records are very important to protect yourself audio call logs, video, email. Do not communicate any thing adverse to any one. Do not use Any Chat based service. Use Only EMAIL as the only means of official communication. If you have audio call logs of conversation, they usually lie, you can show that as proof. 
7. Some recruitment agencies use your CV for elimination for someone else. 
8. Any International experience is NOT Valid for Canadian. They do not even recognise other degrees even after WES assessment. US/EU experience are not even considered. 
9. Watchout for Gangs and Mafia based on nationality. Each town or city has their own local gangs when you search you would know about it. Look for MacClean Dangerous places to live ranking prior to picking a place to rent or purchase. 
10. Do not park your vehicle anywhere and go to be towed and penalty of 400+ dollars.
11. Educate yourself on various scams in Canada in youtube. 
12. Incorporate a company for your consulting as a contractor, it costs around 350-400$. Get yourself a good Chartered accountant.
13. Protect your family and property with cameras and logs. Donot forget to change the video camera default password settings, else most of these devices are from china and some chinese agency is monitoring this and using it for we do not know what purpose. 
14. Do not go by any ranking you see. the word "prestige" french word is deceptive, prior to enrolling for masters or PhD speak to earlier PhD students who are from your community and nationality and learn how biased the professor is. Bias is evident, some are also unethical and abusive. What you do not know might harm you. so be very careful prior to signing up for working with them. in academia it is always ghettos based on religion and nationality. They will only promote and invest in their community or religion or nationality. only 1% might be genuine, that the truth. 



